
# New Post: Feb. 23, 2026

Title: Magical Thinking

  

   When we wish upon a star we are hoping that something we  dearly desire will magically come to be; that wishing itself will make it happen. 

   While we do grow old,we do not outgrow magical thinking.

It appears throughout sentient life embedded in our every wish,dream,hope and prayer. Some of these become repetitive,intermittently vibrant,but never developed. Others morph  into malleable plans, revisited and reworked over time. One day a  plan stops. It becomes  appraised  as being too grandiose,too scary,too something, and deemed “just not possible.” The abruptness of its ending is frequently cushioned by the thought   “maybe some day,some time,it will happen.” The plan has now been abandoned before it  had a chance to be enacted.   

   There are three major elements that foster defeatism and get in the way of our wishes being actualized. These are time, energy, and finances. ”I don't have the [time.](http://time.we/)I don’t have the [energy.](http://energy.er/)I don’t have the funds.” An  overarching  element,however, is  the  perception of one’s  self   as  an  agent of change. In order to pursue our wishes,dreams or hopes we need to believe we can change.Then  we can develop a plan.

    After a plan is developed, we reach the stage of Commitment. This entails  sitting with  oneself, tweaking  the plan and deciding to go forward with it. Making a decision is a cognitive process.  It is what we arrive at after  gathering what we  perceive is  enough information. This brings us to the  stage of Doing. The first step is exciting. Unfortunately,it also   frequently  triggers  one  last  obstacle. We know about the little voice in our head cautioning   us:  “ Be careful.Danger!Change looms ahead.”   

If we are able to  get past this we  come to the   stage of  implementing the plan. It is at this stage where magical  thinking is abandoned.

ACTIVITY

  

   Can you  recognize yourself in this  discussion of the    progression of stages between our wishes,hopes and dreams and achieving a goal? Can you reconsist the stage where you historically get stuck? identify where on the stage progression you are there are you  most  likely to get stuck?  Being able to identify   can be aware of  that behavior.And help you consider what you can do to guide and  support yourself going forward. 

   Choose a wish (hope,dream) –a realistic one that is currently active. Think through the stages and identify your “self talk” that goes along with each state.Can you  hear   messages that  are self-defeating?

  

 I will share an example from my life to help get you going.   

  

    After my husband died, and the chaos of the  enormous change in roles  and  responsibilities began to  slow down, I became aware of a Wish to take a trip;an actual physical move,to mark the end of my old life and the beginning of my new one.  This trip was not fleshed [out. It](http://out.it/) was just the idea of a trip,and  I wanted it just  to happen (Magical Thinking). When I even began to  think of what the trip might include, many  “buts”   jumped into my thinking to beat it down. I didn't have the Energy to plan a trip right now.   I felt  tired,de-energized.(Response:That is precisely why a trip might be in order.)    I didn't have the Time. There is so much “business to attend to” following the death of a spouse. How can I spend time on unnecessary travel?  (Response You can if you choose to.The business  will be there for you when you return.)  Financial. Maybe I should wait and see if  other expenses would be coming along.(Response:They will.Don’t wait. Life doesn't.)

   Plan: Realistic. Start  low,Go slow,But go.

   Rule out: Defeatism 

   Begin with: An airplane trip to visit my son and his family for three days.

  Success! I did it! I made it happen and lived to tell the tale.  

  

   Since then I have taken two more trips;  one a little more challenging, and another considerably more challenging. 

  The truth is that change  is always a challenge,and  more so in  old age.  

    The voice in my head now has a new message.

   “Go for it! You know you can do it. And the When is Now.

  

DrR