 Title: My Fountain Pen

Many years ago, one of my early positions entailed consulting with staff at a very special facility. It was one of the first in the state to be designated a skilled nursing facility exclusively for patients with dementia. There I met with the residents, spending time with those who were  experienced as problematic to the staff in order  to help guide and  support  their caregiving efforts.  Over time  I became aware of certain  female  residents who   were regular walkers. They would walk repeatedly walk   around  and around the floor,   stopping   to respond the   directive of an  enormous  STOP sign, so that they would be reminded not to go through the door at each end, and then continued  their waking. The women generally liked to walk after they've been helped to wash and dress  for the day  and feel  ready to go out into the world.  I noticed that they often  would be carrying a handbag, and I wondered where they thought they were going,   where they   might    need  a purse .

Overtime I asked each of the women if I could see what was in her handbag I was never refused they appeared willing to hand it to me to open and peak in. I  discovered that None of the handbags were empty, but they contained uniquely different articles. Sometimes they would clutch it closely well I peeked in and other times they seemed happy to rummage through and pick out different things to show me. These things these articles had some special meaning to each of them.

What did I find?   I found a lipstick, some tissue or handkerchief, a small mirror, photographs of children, likely  grandchildren  or even great grandchildren. This was a time before mobile  phones,  to say nothing of phones that could take photographs.    Some  handbags  held  a little stuffed animal or baby doll.  I saw the occasional white gloves  and   rosary beads, and  always   a change purse or wallet.  The objects    represented   what was uniquely important to each of the women. They could remind them  of  the children in their lives,  of  their ability to   buy something, and that  they could freshen up to look their best with the lipstick and the little  mirror  and be ready to attend  church or   some social event. The articles represented the past  but also  reminded each woman  of what   contributed to who she is now.

I got to thinking about what  might be found in my handbag if I were a patient in a skilled nursing facility and had dementia but was able to walk around and carry a handbag. What  objects would represent me? I suspect  one would find a picture of my children and  grandchildren, and   some tissue  and  lip gloss,  a small hand sanitizer,  a bookmark, some paper  and  a fountain pen.   These objects would identify me as  a    reader,  who was  attentive to my appearance, was germ conscious ,  and  ready  to note something  with a  fountain pen.

As the daughter of a printer, I came  to appreciate  quality paper and ink and developed a love of fountain pens.  Over time, I accumulated a small collection of  them;  not very costly ones, but  very  dear to me.   When I  finished graduate school and successfully  defended my dissertation,     my husband gifted me with a very special   fountain pen, which I  treasure and use  every day (except   when  it is  in the pen hospital  in California to be tuned up, during which time  I am aware of  counting the days  until  it is returned   to me.)   

As we become older, and  become old, things fall apart and   fall away; things that remind us of who we were  and what has been. Some  things do  remain however and continue to be important  to how we present ourselves   and how we  feel ourselves to be.  I am a member of a multigenerational family, I am  health conscious,  an avid reader,   a  committed writer,  and  will  always love  my fountain pen .   

What will be in your handbag?
